5 - Always (A)
4 - Often (O)
3 - Sometimes (S)
2 - Rarely (R)
1 - Never (N)
 
1. I am in the position to punish uncooperative and
difficult people.  
2. I establish procedures for effective and efficient
operations in all departments of the schools division.
3. I make sure that my subordinates will comply with
what is needed because they believe in the legitimacy of
my position.
4. I have the authority to instruct and set direction for the
entire schools division.
5. I carry out a policy or course of action, mandated by
the region or the Department of Education.
6. I maintain complete and total control of the school
division.
7. I ensure quality and accessible education in schools 
and learning centers as one of my duties and
responsibilities.
8. I maintain formal and distant relationships with my
people in the schools division.
9. I know that my people will obey my command and
orders because of my position.
10. I supervise the overall operation of the schools
division.
11. I have the authority to instruct disciplinary action to
subordinates who do not obey me.
12. I use my position and authority to control the people
within the schools division.
13. I have the power to command an order, which is
underpinned by rules and even laws to exert control over
them.
14. I ensure the implementation of policies as established
by the Department of Education.
15. I give orders to my people since I am the head of the
schools division.
16. I can use reward as a negotiating strategy in directing
and commanding the organization.
17. I understand that rewarding gives gratification to
teaching and non-teaching personnel and brings success
to an educational community while contributing greatly
in the total development and competencies of the schools
division.
18. I have the ability to confer or withhold rewards such
as money, privileges, promotion, or status.
19. I affirm that giving praise is a strong motivator and
can be considered as an intangible reward.
20. Giving reward may bring a better change in the
behavior of teaching and non-teaching personnel.
21. I understand that if the reward available can only be
given to a subset of teaching and non-teaching personnel
then this can create healthy competition amongst
personnel to achieve the reward.
22. I am able to give special benefits and rewards to
people because I find it advantageous to trade with him
or her.
23. I attest that if a reward has been promised to the
entire schools division if they hit an objective, then this
can create a strong bond within the whole schools
division as everyone achieve a common goal.
24. I assert that the use of reward can promote trust and
loyalty to the schools division.
25. I can motivate people to respond through promotions
and awards in my schools division.
26. I affirm that the anticipation of a reward can
encourage teaching and non-teaching personnel to work
hard to achieve reward
27. I understand that I can motivate teaching and nonteaching personnel by providing incentives for 
performance in the form of resources.
28. I assert that the use of reward can get a subordinate to
follow an instruction, with power coming from a school
superintendent to withhold the reward for
noncompliance.
29. I attest that providing positive reinforcement and
incentivizing people can foster creativity, healthy
competition, and excitement across the schools division.
30. I understand that giving reward plays an important
role towards an effective leadership.
31. I can reprimand my subordinates because I am
capable to do it.
32. I assert that I have the ability and authority to punish
if expectations are not met.
33. I use suspension or termination to ensure that the
rules and policies of the schools division are being
followed accordingly including those related to
administrative offenses.
34. I can make things difficult to some people
specifically if he or she is not following me.
35. I have the ability to control the behavior of my
subordinates by ensuring that they adhere to the
organization’s policies and norms.
36. I have the ability to force a subordinate to follow an
order by threatening the employee with punishment if the
subordinate does not comply with the order.
37. If the schools division is undergoing any changes,
then coercion could deter any resistance from teaching
and non-teaching personnel.
38. I affirm that coercion can ensure that teaching and
non-teaching personnel will follow rules and policies of
the Department.
39. I understand that coerciveness aids in the demand of
compliance to the organizations protocol for new and
veteran personnel.
40. I develop discipline among teaching and nonteaching personnel, which I believe improves efficiency
and productivity of the schools division.
41. I attest that I have the authority to prevent or
eliminate harassment and discrimination in my schools
division.
42. If teaching and non-teaching personnel defy
Department policies or standards, I immediately correct
behaviors of teaching and non-teaching personnel
through an appropriate sanction or punishment.
43. At times, I assert that punishment, or even the threat
of punishment is necessary to establish a successful,
incident free organization.
44. I affirm that coercion increases an antagonistic
climate and enforced compliance.
45. I know that coercion is effective to control what is
happening inside the schools division.
46. I am using my charisma to attract others, build
loyalty with them and use it for them to follow me.
47. I desire for a feeling of oneness and acceptance in a
valued relationship in my own schools division.
48. I ensure to give my people the satisfaction they need
at work by creating an inspiring vision and build an
emotional bond/positive relationship between my people
and me.
49. I appreciate extra effort to applaud accomplishments
rather than highlighting areas of improvement.
50. I extend beyond clocking in and clocking out each
day, even beyond work-related matters to accommodate
the needs of my people.
51. I keep and commit with my promises and do
unsolicited favors for my people.
52. I engage and affiliate my people in activities that are
challenging, interesting, and internally rewarding without
the prospect of external reward or coercion.
53. I use sincere forms of ingratiation as well as
communicate with them in order to find and fill the
people’s need.
54. I ascertain a deep appreciation of empowerment for it
involves critical decision-making and taking actions that
enable them to make real choices that could transform
these choices into desired actions or outcomes.
55. I let them discuss their thoughts and how their
contributions could impact the strategic interest of the
school division. Through this, I can assure the
involvement and closeness among members is visible in
achieving desired goal.
56. I utilize my personal attributes, personalities, and
appearance to articulate organizational vision and
achieve organizational objective.
57. I practice what I preach to build trust with my people
as well as recognize the hard work and good ideas of my
people for them to be empowered and work harder.
58. I inspire and motivate my people to be fully involved
in achieving goals and objectives of the organization.
59. I treat my people with respect no matter what their
rank is and always place a lot of value on each member
of the organization.
60. I ascertain that the power of imitation and modeling
is an important factor to influence people.
61. I make certain to create my own ethical codes and
ethical guidelines for these guidelines have positive
impacts on the ethical behavior of my people.
62. I assert that I am well trained in handling problems
using my intellect and also a good persuasion expert.
63. I have the ability to communicate, persuade,
negotiate, influence, delegate, and interact effectively
with other people that enable me to leverage using
other’s people effort and knowledge.
64. I make bargains with people using my high-level of
skills and knowledge to achieve what I want.
65. I guarantee to have complete knowledge of ethical
issues, which members of my organization faces.
66. I am a strong motivator and believe that every human
interaction involves a complex process of persuasion and
influence.
67. I ascertain that rank means responsibility but not
authority, and superintendent’s job is not to command,
but to persuade.
68. I have the ability to stand out in certain areas that
lead to my advancement with other people.
69. I respect organizational needs and tailor my
knowledge to suit the requirements.
70. I intend to continue learning and improving through
continual formal study, trainings, and leadership
seminars so that I can hold my influence with other
people.
71. I have the superior knowledge, expertise, and proven
ability to perform my duties and responsibilities as a
schools division superintendent.
72. I can understand and effectively communicate
educational content to my people in the schools division
because of my credibility and decisive leadership.
73. I have an elevated level of knowledge or specific skill
set that others in the organization do not have.
74. I attest that the more I learn a lot of things, the better
I can hold my influence with other people.
75. I know that I possess superior skills, knowledge, and
abilities that enables me to perform tasks and provide my
people with better understanding of the world around
them.